This project was compiled with clang version 6.0.1.

### Overview
This project implements a directed, weighted graph representing the network of airport routes
within the U.S. Airports are represented as nodes while flights are represented as edges. The
complete graph contains 10484 routes by 72 airlines covering 539 airports in 519 cities.

### Data
Datasets were obtained from [OpenFlights](https://openflights.org/data.html) and cleaned to 
only include relevant data for domestic flights. The airport dataset contains the name and 
city for each airport while the route dataset contains the source airport ID, destination 
airport ID, airline name, and cost for each route.

Route weights were artificially generated as costs inversely proportional to the frequency 
of the destination airport and the airline (i.e. routes with popular airlines/destinations 
cost less). Both components of the weight were normalized by their respective averages before 
being summed to generate the overall weight.

### Algorithms
The four algorithms implemented are:
1. Shortest-Path Breadth-First Search (BFS): Finds the shortest-path between the source and
   destination airport non-recursively, defined as the minimum number of airports between 
   them (ignoring route costs), which is not necessarily guaranteed to exist. As opposed to 
   Depth-First Search, BFS explores all neighbor airports at a given distance before exploring
   those at the next distance.
2. Prim's Minimum Spanning Tree (MST): Finds the largest minimum spanning tree according to 
   Prim's algorithm. Since the graph is weakly connected, the MST only contains airports 
   that are reachable from the starting airport. Implements a priority queue as a min heap 
   that returns the lowest cost airport that has not been visited yet.
3. Shortest-Path A* Search: Finds the shortest-path between the source and destination
   airport by generating the shortest-path tree, defined as the minimum route cost between 
   them, which is not necessarily guaranteed to exist. Essentially a combination of BFS and 
   Prim's MST to create Dijkstra's algorithm with an additional heuristic 
   function to estimate the cost of a solution through any given airport. Since the
   heuristic must be admissible, it simply finds the lowest cost route from the given airport
   in order to never overestimate its cost.
4. Landmark Path: Finds the shortest-path from airport A to airport B through airport C, 
   which is simply the shortest-path from A to C combined with the shortest-path from C to 
   B. This is indirectly implemented in both BFS and A* Search, which perform
   separate searches for each destination airport sequentially by taking the last 
   destination as the new source.

### Running
The project can be compiled with `make` and ran with `./main` for a user-friendly interface 
that provides a guided entry of city and airport inputs. Prim's MST only requires a starting
airport while shortest-path searches require at least one destination in addition. 
Command-line arguments can also be provided for quick queries if airport IDs are known. 

For instance, `./main 200` finds Prim's MST starting at Chicago O'Hare International 
Airport, while `./main 200 124` finds the shortest-path from Chicago O'Hare International
Airport to Hartsfield Jackson Atlanta International Airport. Any number of destinations can 
be entered, and the ID for each airport can be found in the airport dataset.

A subset of test cases that were used to test the program can be compiled with `make test` 
and ran with `./test`. 

Test cases can be found in the __tests__ directory, while the airport and route datasets 
along with the python script used to clean the data can be found in the __data__ directory.
The routes consisting of the graph generated by Prim's MST can be found in 
__data/prim-mst-routes.txt__